[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There is a very curious
phenomenon in the world which
is coming more and
more to the fore,
that things happen
at the same time.
They fall together, as it
were, even though there
is no way that we would
know how they would actually
be connected.
Great discoveries happened
at the same time period,
with architecture, with the
pyramids being born in--
in middle America, in some
parts of Europe, and in the east
and following the same laws,
practically, all at once
in historical time.
Same discoveries--
the great appearance
of the great teachers
in Greece and in China
almost at the same time.
Now, as far as we know, they
didn't talk to each other.
They didn't have the internet.
So how come did these
things happen together?
Coincidences that are
meaningful are synchronicity.
So the question is,
what is synchronicity?
It's acausal connection.
That is almost the
official definition of it,
no cause and effect, no--
knowable cause and effect.
Of course, there's
a deeper cause.
My consciousness is
collected with yours,
as we are part of the
same cosmic hologram.
But this is not the
normal push and pull
connection, not by energy and
words creating a difference.
It's a spontaneous
connection between two
seemingly unconnected things
that connect together.
And together, they
lead to something.
This is a true synchronicity.
Entire big volumes,
learned volumes,
have been written
on this because it's
a remarkable phenomenon.
And we can't dismiss
it as just imagination.
[CHIMING]
The world is an illusion
is one possible answer
to the question,
what is the world?
Maybe everything that
we perceive of the world
is an illusion
created by our mind.
Or maybe the
illusion is our mind,
and the world is really there as
a bit of unsensing, non-living,
just brute matter, as it were.
The Buddha took the
answer, thinking--
saying that the
world as we perceive
it is an illusion because
there is something
more to the world, something
deeper, an underlying
reality, which-- which is
producing the sensations which
we call "the world."
But that's an illusion.
The reality lies
deeper, more profoundly.
And that-- by the
way, that thought
is now shared at the
leading edge of science,
especially in quantum
science, when we talk
about the fundamental field.
But it's also there in--
in the grand unified
theories, in the theories
of solid-state matter.
For example, matter, per se,
had to originate someplace.
And it originates
at a deeper level.
And then the deeper
level is the real world,
and matter is an illusion.
This statement would now be
accepted by leading physicists.
[CHIMING]
My acquaintance with
Taoism shows that this is--
what I'm doing is rediscovering
something that has already
been discovered and discussed
but rediscovering in my way,
in my own way.
But Tao is entirely--
the idea of the Tao
as the guidance system is
coming from a deeper level.
It's coming from an
Akashic dimension.
That is entirely true.
And I am today also working
with Taoist masters,
for example, Master Sha.
I am an advisor to his
university, which is just
opening now in Colorado.
So Tao is something that we have
discussed in this same place,
in this room here, the Taoist
master, for days on end.
[CHIMING]
This-- makes this
misinterpretation
of the world as an illusion.
Therefore, it doesn't
matter what we do.
It's a misinterpretation
because it's--
the world as we think
it comes from someplace.
The thought comes
from someplace.
If it's absolutely arbitrary--
mistaken, yes-- then--
then the source
might be mistaken,
but the consequences are real.
If you think it doesn't
matter and in reality--
reality, it does, and we destroy
something, then, of course,
we'll pay the consequence.
We'll pay the price.
So it's-- the world is--
as it is out there is out there.
How we think of it
can be an illusion.
[CHIMING]
We have divorced ourselves
from our true nature.
We are not here by accident.
We are here for the same reason
that the galaxies are here
and that the single-celled
organisms are here
and the plants are here.
We are here as part of
an evolutionary process.
But we have ignored--
we are ignoring this.
We are also rejecting
the idea that
there being a higher purpose
built into the universe.
And we are destroying
the environment
because we are no
longer connected
on that felt experience level.
Our connection is there, but we
don't feel it, don't sense it.
We will need to
recover that to become
more aware of the true nature
of nature, so to speak.
But the nature of nature is also
the nature of our being here.
We are destroying something
that we don't feel connected to.
We think it's just there
as-- as a mechanical,
uncaused consequence and
meaningless consequence
of the universe operating
in a certain way,
just happening to be--
to produce these kind of things,
no further meaning to it.
We need to recover our oneness,
our contact, our communication,
if you like, with
the environment.
[CHIMING]
I would like to
promote, to help,
to assist in people
taking themselves
seriously and exploring
themselves, stopping
for a moment.
Stop the world, and
think of who you
are because when
you come back, you
might act more together
in synchronicity,
in syntony with the world.
You have to take a break
from this my-- wild rush
toward technically and
mechanically exploiting things
that satisfy our
immediate wants and needs
and understand
better who we are,
how we relate to nature, what
nature is, not philosophically,
not having to go even into deep
theoretical considerations.
Just sense it.
Sense the world as
it is around you.
Become one with it.
Walk in the forest.
Sit down for a moment,
and look at the sun
or look at the
brightness around.
It's a remarkable world,
and it's not a casual world.
It's a world that has
its meaning and sense.
So I would say reorient
yourself, the individual,
and then groups of
individuals, because those
will change the world.
Reorient toward an
understanding that you
are part of a larger
development, which
you call "evolution."
And evolution on Earth is part
of evolution in the universe.
That is what I think
we need to recognize.
And then we'll come back
and be more careful, more--
more and better advised,
more sound in our decisions
as to how to live.
[CHIMING]
Some years ago, Marshall
McLuhan, the Canadian,
the thinker of the connections,
of electronic connections,
he said, "The medium
is the message."
But I don't agree.
A medium is an instrument
to convey the message.
The medium itself
is not the message.
He thought if you start
connecting to each other,
then you will be connected.
But you can be connected
in so many different ways.
You can be connected as
part of a terrorist group.
You can be part of
an evangelical group.
a business group.
You can be many
things, and they all
will be based on connection.
But the internet is an
instrument for connection,
for the good, for the
indifferent, and for the bad.
Let's try to make it
work in such a way
that it promotes our
being in the world
and being together
with each other
and creating a sphere
of meaningful life
on this planet, which we're
in danger of losing that.
Losing life is becoming
meaningless and becoming
conflictual and is in danger
of disappearing altogether
as we use more and more powerful
means of enforcing our contact,
our domination over others.
The internet could facilitate
all the good things
in the world, as well as the
best things in the world.
So the adults in
the room, if they
use the internet to share their
insights, their conclusions,
or even just their
explorations, it
will be a very
great step forward.
The problem is to
use the internet
for itself, just as a--
as a use technology.
Then it's a kind of a
toy, like you're using--
a new car comes along that it's
more powerful than the others,
you know?
OK.
That's a great fascination.
I used to love
driving sports cars.
But I realized that the point
is where this car takes you.
Now I'm more interested in
where I'm going with the car
than just the technology
of getting there, you know?
So the internet--
in the internet
is a technology for
getting someplace.
But we have forgotten to
ask, where do we want to go?
So a great instrument,
almost, I would
say, an essential instrument,
irreplaceable instrument today
in a complex world of
seven billion people
to use this connection,
which is the internet.
But use it consciously and
not just as a fascination
for technology itself.
[CHIMING]
Well, Plato's analogy
of the cave, of a--
of a group of
prisoners, we call it,
who are changed in
such a way in a cave
that they only can see forward.
And there's a fire, big fire
behind this, a big flame.
And they-- these flames show--
throw shadows on the
wall in front of them.
So the prisoners
see the shadows.
They can only speculate
what the nature of the fire
is behind them.
They can't turn
their heads around.
We are like that.
We can't turn our heads around.
We see superficial
phenomena, and we
try to think what
they really could be.
The key insight
to this is perhaps
the truth of this assumption.
The shadows are not
really a reality.
That's not all there is.
The shadows are something
that represents a reality.
We need to penetrate to it.
In Plato's analogy, turning
our head to look behind
is equivalent in the--
in the latest science and the
scientific and practical sense,
understanding that
the sensory reality
is one element, one
dimension, which is
produced by a deeper dimension.
But they call it the "Akashic
field" or "Akashic dimension"
or call it the "implicate order"
or the "grand unified field"
or the "cosmic quantum field."
Whatever-- however we
call it, it's there.
There is something which
holds all the things that
are happening in
the world together,
creates orientation,
creates guidance, conveys
the laws of nature, and this
is by nature of our mind.
So it is a deep mind, as
without it, the universe
is inconceivable.
It would be chaotic.
The very fact that the
universe is not chaotic,
not purely prey to
chance, supposes,
makes you postulate
that there is
some thing, some intelligence
that is behind it.
So Plato had this idea.
I was-- for a long time
in my-- in my life,
I was more an Aristotelian
than Platonist-- than Platonist
because I was thinking you
have to observe and make
your theories on the
basis of observation.
Then I began to realize
already now for the past 10,
15 years that you don't
understand what you really
observe until you go to
the roots, to the source.
And that's deeper.
That's beyond what you observe.
[CHIMING]
I believe in life
after death because I
believe in consciousness not
being limited to the brain.
So if you call
consciousness, "life," yes.
It's not organic life, not
the ordinary organic life.
I can-- in my terms, I
can explain, so to speak.
I can provide the
best explanation
that I can come up with
out of this phenomenon
by saying that the
life, organic life,
is one set of vibrations,
a given frequency.
And consciousness, which exists
independently of organic life,
organic picks it up.
It's another frequency.
It's a deeper frequency of
vibration in the universe.
So incarnate living,
body and soul together,
means that you are
receiving and work--
decoding, working
with both the one
level of vibration, the everyday
world, and the deep level.
They're joined together,
your mind and body together.
When die-- when one dies, then
that one level of vibration,
the surface level, the level
of the body, it disappears.
It vanishes.
If you are reborn,
then it comes in again.
But until then, the other
level, which is the deep level,
continues.
It's still there
because it does--
it is not produced by
the brain, by the body.
But it is interacting.
It shows up.
It is manifested by the body.
So I do believe that our
mind, our consciousness,
is immortal, as immortal
as the deep dimension,
as the laws of nature,
as everything that--
as that intelligence
that governs the world.
That's all immortal.
It's eternal.
Well, what is transitory is
the manifestation of this.
And therefore,
this manifestation
is also what appears in
our everyday consciousness.
It's our manifestation of
the transient phenomenon
of the body.
Deep down, we can find that
source, that origin of things.
And that is what is the reality,
which is not transitory.
The Akashic record is
a record of the events
that happen in what people
call the "deep mind."
Record-- the Akashic record
is memory, is a memory field.
In that sense,
it's-- it's a mind.
If you ask yourself, is
the hard drive of memory
that you hold in your hand, is
that the same as your computer,
it's an element of your computer
when you're switched into it.
It's a record.
The great assumption
and I would say
discovery is that
there's nothing
purely transient in the world.
Everything happens--
remains, in a sense.
It remains part of what
is happening after that.
And it's the best
part because there
is this deep mind,
this intricate order,
our Akashic field,
which is a memory.
It's a memory of
all that happens.
It's a governing
factor because it's
built into-- into it is built
the direction, built how
to proceed, built to
proceed through what
I call a "holistic dimension."
We are creating systems,
creating integral systems that
evolve together.
What was called
"Akashic records,"
that's only a part of it.
That's the recording
part, so to speak.
But the deep mind has
also a dynamic part.
It has what I call
"attractors," and attractors
that are shifting constantly
evolution and guiding it
in a direction, a direction
of building complex systems,
building unity and diversity.
And so I think the Akashic
field is the together.
The Akashic record,
in a deeper sense
of a field, a guidance field,
is a deep mind operating
in the world.
I would accept the deep
mind as an expression
for the implicate order.
The cosmos is the deep mind.
The universe is something
that is produced
in and by the deep mind.
The cosmos is and the
universe, as far as we know,
now this universe has appeared
13.8 billion years ago,
roughly, after the Big
Bang or with the Big Bang.
But the cosmos was something
there that was there before
and will be there after.
[CHIMING]
It's possible to con--
we are always in contact
with the deep mind.
To be really guided by it,
to be consonant with it,
we have to resonate with it.
We have to tune ourselves so
that it acts physically on us,
so that it guides our movements
and guides our thinking, also.
So it's a question of using the
contact for effective change,
for effective information.
Let me use this term
"information" as a hyphen,
"in-form."
The deep mind is contacted.
We are constantly in contact.
We're living with the deep mind.
But for most of it and for
most people, it's ignored.
It's simply as if
it didn't exist.
Fortunately, it
exists sufficiently so
that physically, our physical
body has this ki or the chi
and this kind of information
which the Easterners say
is the chi, which enables the--
the bodies, these organs.
And it's also the body to become
a single, coherent, viable
organism.
But beyond that, we often
disregard and neglect
the deeper information,
which would also make us
as individuals be a coherent
part of the human community
and in the community of life.
So we become-- become--
we need to tune ourselves
to receive and to be
guided by this deep mind.
[CHIMING]
Yes, I think the deep mind
is the opposite of entropy.
Entropy is a physical process
that really only exists
in a closed system, a
system that doesn't pick up
energy information and
matter from outside
and doesn't exchange.
There are no such systems
actually in reality.
That we from physics.
Everything that exists
in this universe
is in one way or
another available for--
for receiving energy
and information,
even if it seems on the short
term locally that it's closed.
There's nothing
absolutely closed.
So in as much as we
are also open systems
and basically are open systems,
we are open to evolution
and guided by the
attractors, by the deep mind,
because we are constantly
interchanging, exchanging,
information.
Therefore, this motivation,
this impulse toward wholeness,
toward oneness, toward
creating larger unities,
we are constantly
subject to this.
We are constantly
receiving that.
We are part of that.
[CHIMING]
Our consciousness was always--
is always a part of
this deeper dimension,
the Akashic dimension.
It's-- when we die, it's only
the aspect of our experience
which is produced by our
physical brain is seizing.
That no longer is operating.
In rebirth-- rebirth, that
same element is coming back
and gets conjugated again with
the experience of the deeper
level.
[CHIMING]
Probably, it would be very
difficult, if not impossible,
to behave coherently
for all people
if we have a full recall
of our previous lives.
Some information has to be
lost but not irrevocably
or unrecoverably lost.
I think we can recover much,
if not all, of previous lives.
And there are people
who did have life--
previous lifetime experiences.
I believe I have some myself.
[CHIMING]
There is a race between
education and disaster.
Information-- it is the
opening to information
so that we all become
mystics to some extent.
That mystical element
has to be part of our--
of our consciousness,
part of our mind.
The reason we deny that, the
reason we ignore that is we
are afraid of it.
It doesn't fit into our
everyday reality concept.
So the question is how
to open us in such a way
that there is a mystical element
in our consciousness, which
means the element beyond
sensory input, an element that
is transcendental.
Psychiatrists discover that.
They know that.
Artists know it, and
they act like it.
Scientists, the
great scientists,
are beginning to
recognize it, you know?
The general run of the mill of
society or layers of society,
so far, they refuse
to take it seriously
because it's inconvenient.
It's an inconvenient
truth, in a way,
because it doesn't
fit as what we know--
we think we know.
But it's a deeper
reality that we have
to know and take seriously.
And then we can live
in a better way.
We can live more aligned
with the world around us.
Information is everywhere.
This information, which
is behind all things,
is like a holographic
information.
It's there.
It's distributed.
It's everywhere.
So what we need to
resort to is this idea
of the cosmos as a
holographic information
field that affects the
everyday level, the surface
level of information.
So what is there is
the information which
is expressed in the laws of
nature, is expressed in memory.
And expressed in all
things that we experience,
there's this element
of information.
And that-- that
information is directional.
It drives.
It moves us in-- sort
of in a given direction.
It's not random, and it's
not insignificant or casual.
It's there.
It's a-- a cosmos that
provides information
for a universe that
evolves, evolves
toward higher and higher
levels of integration.
And possibly, these highest
levels of integration
lead to a kind of
a cosmic union,
like the Eastern
religions talk about,
between the consciousness
that is-- becomes available,
becomes possible in
the universe at higher
levels, of that consciousness
to find communion
with the consciousness, which
is the cosmos itself, nirvana.
[CHIMING]
I-- in my books,
I've been talking
about two kinds of purpose
or destiny, a proximal
and an ultimate.
The proximal objective
and therefore also mission
and destiny is to behave
coherently, to become coherent.
That means relate to each
other in a coherent way.
Relate to nature
in a coherent way
so that we become a sphere
of coherence on this planet.
That's the proximal level.
But you can ask why.
What does this serve,
this super coherence?
It serves-- then here, we
come to a mystical dimension.
It serves we're
ultimately reaching
that level of evolution
in the consciousness that
is made possible by this
coherent system on Earth.
That level of coherence,
that makes possible
a union with the deep
mind itself so that we
no longer continue this
evolutionary process.
At the highest level,
we enter into communion
with the mind of
the cosmos itself,
the divine intelligence.
[CHIMING]
Love is a manifestation of
the action of an attractor.
Sorry to be seemingly
splitting hairs,
but I think love
is a phenomenon.
And their attractor is what
creates this phenomenon.
The attractor simply means that
there is something predisposed
in the universe
which moves, enables
individuals, even seeds
of a tree, you know,
whatever appears
in this universe,
to integrate with one another,
to create larger holes,
integral holes.
And love is a manifestation
in the human mind
of this-- of this drive
toward creating holes.
[CHIMING]
If people are afraid
of consequences,
if they don't obey, then
they are motivated to obey.
But I have no good answer
as to what is fear.
It sounds presumptuous,
but I have
no real experience with fear.
Of course, I fear if somebody
would pull a knife at me.
I will be fearsome.
I fear sometimes of missing
a plane because something
has happened on the way.
But I-- fear itself is not
an element of my experience.
So I can't really answer that.
I think what happens--
I always believe that what
happens has a reason to it.
And it's better to
understand the reason
than just simply fear
the consequences.
I suppose the unknown--
why people fear what
they don't understand
is the unknown holds a
deeply embedded fear.
I think that comes to us, if I
would try to give an anthropo--
anthropomorphic
explanation of this,
it has to do probably
with the animals howling
outside our cave.
It's something out there.
That is a primeval fear.
And I can experience that.
I can-- I can appreciate that.
But I don't let it in, in a way.
I don't let it bias my
thinking and my feeling
because I know it's
something primeval.
It's something there.
We are not beings that have
their existence assured
for the rest of our lifetime.
But once said that, I
can go past it, you know?
So it's an irrational factor.
Fear is irrational.
And it's highly dangerous to
let it dominate your life.
[CHIMING]
It's-- to some extent, I
know that the existence that
I've built up here will
not continue in this form.
And I also know that
another kind of an existence
will take its place,
but it's a big change.
I'm afraid of it the same way--
which is not a real fear--
that I will be actually afraid
of moving to another city.
It's a change of venue.
But I'm not afraid of it
as-- as the end of something.
[MUSIC PLAYING]